---
title:  "Choice"
heading: "Why?"

---

If this neighborhood has an average crime rate, and if it’s one of the best public investments in town, and if displacement of its residents won’t solve poverty, and if its residents actually do care; why do these false neighborhood characterizations continue?

<h3 class="pv4 bt bb b--black-70 black-70 mw6 center f3 f2-ns fw3 call-out">If you go looking for failure, you’re bound to find it.</h3>

Many have been looking too long and too hard for failure in this neighborhood. This approach is used so commonly, even some residents now look for what’s wrong with their own neighborhood. Their questions continually ask what’s wrong in this neighborhood, rather than what’s strong.

<blockquote><q>Perhaps the most important contributor to a community’s success is a belief in its abilities rather than its problems.</q> <cite>- John Mcknight, <em class="ttu f5 fw3">Professor Emeritus of Social Policy, Northwestern University</em></cite>
</blockquote>

The people of this neighborhood need approaches that ask better questions if they want to find better answers for their future.

<h3 class="pv4 bt bb b--black-70 black-70 mw6 center f3 f2-ns fw3 call-out">Current approaches to evaluating neighborhoods are insufficient.</h3>

Residents agree this neighborhood should be walkable, but this neighborhood is already one of the most walkable neighborhoods in the Lincoln. Tracking progress with walkability doesn’t provide much insight about this neighborhood’s progress.

Lincoln’s comprehensive land-use plan (LPlan 2040) points to Lincoln’s Community Indicators for useful benchmarks. Lincoln Community Indicators report measures of well-being and progress, however, its focus is primarily city-wide.

For example, Lincoln Community Indicator 27 for the affordable housing benchmark is the median price of a single-family detached home. Yet, most residents rent their homes in this neighborhood. The Lincoln’s Community Indicator report may completely miss the rising costs for residents living here; it doesn’t capture the local context of this neighborhood.

What is success at the neighborhood level?

<h3 class="pv4 bt bb b--black-70 black-70 mw6 center f3 f2-ns fw3 call-out">neighborhood success  = <br>  when people choose to stay</h3>

The word choose is emphasized because many residents are not staying here by choice. They are staying because there's little else they could afford. Many would move out of the neighborhood if they were allowed to or when they have the means to do so; in some cases, simply to be closer to work.

So why will people choose to stay?

<h1 class="f2 f-subheadline-ns mt0 lh-solid">People stay for a Social <b class="green">L</b><b class="blue">I</b><b class="orange">F</b><b class="red">E</b>.</h1>

