---
title:  "Poverty"
heading: "Over 40% of residents live in poverty."

---

The 2014 Lincoln Vital Signs report identified more Lincoln neighborhoods in extreme poverty, than in 2010. Indeed, residents noted not making enough money to keep up with rising costs of living. Some are looking for more income opportunities or awaiting more affordable housing options.

The report also warns against children living in poverty for an extended period of time. These children face tougher odds for achievement than do other children. 

<h3 class="pv4 bt bb b--black-70 black-70 mw10 center f2 fw3 call-out">Gentrification may improve the poverty situation in the neighborhood.</h3>

Some say gentrification will provide more housing opportunities and help stabilize the schools in this neighborhood.

Despite these positive outcomes, some residents voiced concerns about the consequences of gentrification such as displacement of longtime residents. They believe

<h3 class="pv4 bt bb b--black-70 black-70 mw10 center f2 fw3 call-out">displacement will have negative impacts on residents and small businesses.</h3>

<h2 class="mt0 f2 mb4 lh-solid mb0">Are residents at-risk of losing their homes if there’s not any cost stabilization mechanisms for renters? Where will residents live if they are displaced from this neighborhood?</h2>
<h1 class="f2 f-subheadline-ns mt0 lh-solid">What impact will displacement have on the residents of this neighborhood?</h1>







<h1 class="f2 f-subheadline-ns mt0 lh-solid">Residents did not create the poverty they are living in.</h1>

The year 2010 is the first year after economists suggest the Great Recession ended in the US. Yet, the buying power of money has continued to decline. A resident makes less money today even if working the same hours and earning the same hourly wage since 2010. 

<h3 class="pv4 bt bb b--black-70 black-70 mw10 center f2 fw3 call-out">$100 today would only buy $90 worth of groceries 5 years ago.</h3>

Some landlords are raising rents to try to compensate for the inflation. Many families in this neighborhood are having a harder time keeping up. The level of wages required to make a living is rising beyond reach. This issue persists even after a state increase of the minimum wage to $9 per hour.

The economics of this neighborhood is a major reason why families come to live here. The changing economics is also a major reason why families may have to leave.

<h2 class="mt0 f2 mb4 lh-solid">The stability of this neighborhood depends on how livable remains for its families.</h2>
