---
title:  "Crime"
heading: "<q>You don’t want to meet my neighbors.</q> <cite>-Emcee, Ignite Lincoln 2016</cite>"

---

Speaking over the chuckles in the audience, he leaned into the microphone and continued with a joke referring to residents of this neighborhood as “witnesses” or “perpetrators” of crime scenes.

People who do not live here, and even a few who do, often call out this neighborhood for its high crime. The emcee’s jokes show just how negative a perception many people have about this neighborhood and its residents.

Many residents do not share this perception. They believe the negative perceptions of safety in this neighborhood are exaggerated or even flat-out wrong.

<blockquote><q>I walk through [this neighborhood] all the time and nothing bad has ever happened to me. We could use some better lighting at night, but I don’t think it’s as dangerous as they say it is.</q> <cite> -A Neighbor</cite>
</blockquote>

Some feel the local media over-report crime happening in this neighborhood. Some feel biases toward ethnicity and class are contributing to the negative perceptions as has been proven in national media. Many residents suggest higher population density as the main reason why the number of crimes reported are higher here than other Lincoln neighborhoods.

<h2 class="mt0 f2 mb4 lh-solid mb0">Which perception of this neighborhood is correct? Does the amount of people living have an impact on crime?</h2> 
<h1 class="f2 f-subheadline-ns mt0 lh-solid">Is this neighborhood as crime-infested as some say it is?</h1>





<h2 class="mt0 f2 mb4 lh-solid">Perception is the problem, not crime.</h2>

Easy solutions to stop contributions to negative perception don’t exist. Negative perceptions towards ethnicity and class still plague neighborhood-focused apps like AirBnb and Nextdoor while they try to curb racial profiling. The local media will always report on sensational crimes and little else on their own.

Clearly, it’s not crime alone creating negative perceptions of this neighborhood. Downtown has comparable crime rates, but is still able to create a positive narrative and attract investors. It does so by regularly and publicly sharing what is great about their neighborhood rather than what’s bad.

<h3 class="pv4 bt bb b--black-70 black-70 mw10 center f2 fw3 call-out">Positive perceptions can crowd out negative ones.</h3>

This neighborhood must express its own positive stories too, both publicly and regularly. Media is not solely responsible, residents must also stop contributing to the negative perceptions of safety in their neighborhood. They shouldn't expect others to do so before they do.

<h2 class="mt0 f2 mb4 lh-solid">The change in perception must start with the residents.</h2>